假冒 spurious a. forgery sham v.n.a. bogus feign phoney
脏 crumy frowsy sordid squalid sleazy turbid 
吝啬 stingy a.   skimp stint vt.   parsimony n.   吝啬鬼 niggard skinflint
玷污 defile sully smirch 
顽固，不听话，任性   contumacious  contumacy dogged fractious insubordinate  intractable mulish obstinate obdurate opinionated obstreperous pertinacious rebellious refractory recalcitrant rigid  willful ~ tenacious
有害, 毒 virulent pernicious pestilent malign noisome nocuous noxious detrimental venom ~ inimical
臭 malodor fusty rancid fetor stench fetid moldy
陈腐  a. corny fusty stale antiquate banal bathetic bromide trite threadbare pedestrian  hackneyed stereotyped timeworn   platitude n,
乏味 stodgy stuffy dreary humdrum monotonous prosaic jejune
发霉的  funked mildewy musty 
平庸的 mediocre hack hackney
活泼的,轻快的 bouncy brisk jaunty lively(song) perky sprightly(old man)

好斗 scrappy truculent pugnacious
谨慎认真 painstaking conscientious wary meticulous punctilious scrupulous gingerly
倾向 proclivity propensity predilection inclination disposition bent predisposition
卧 拜倒 prostrate 使, grovel
很多 大量 a. profuse fraught  superfluous copious affluent n. 过剩 plethora  vi. 充满 abound teem
慷慨的 lavish munificient largesse,
奢侈 sumptuous extravagance voluptuous luxury lavish
挥霍 浪费 dissipate fritter squander waste splurge a. wasteful profuse profligate spendthrift
支付 defray finance
吝啬  a. stingy tight-fisted miserly 
节省 节俭 a. sparing v. stint skimp scrimp frugal n. frugality husbandry thrift economy
节制 sumptuary abstemious stoic forbearance continence abstinence restraint
纵欲狂欢 n. orgy revel bacchanal debauchery 
放纵 颓废 堕落 a. abandoned debauched dissolute decadent licentious profligate(a.n.)  reprobate (a.n)
好色淫荡情色 aphrodisiac amatory erotic prurient lecherous lascivious libidinous lewd lustful obscence salacious sensual seductive voluptuous   n.libido
猥琐 下流 ribald bawdy vulgar
困境 predicament quandary dilemma plight mire adversity
皱(眉) pucker frown
清晰的 pellucid limpid
贫困 n. penury poverty privation  pauper 穷人  a. destitute indigent impecunious needy penurious
易怒的，脾气坏 cantankerous  cranky  cross  currish crotchety choleric feisty fidgety fractious grumpy irascible  ornery petulant pettish peevish  querulous sulky  snappish testy  touchy
狂怒的 apoplectic
怒 n. ire anger fury wrath indignation exasperation
讨厌的  a. antipathetic loathsome rebarbative repellant
使烦恼 激怒 annoy beleaguer fret fray gall grate irk harass harry nettle peeve pester pigue pother ruffle roil rile vex(sb at sth)
(不断)骚扰 harass hassle harry molest pester
激怒 v. exasperate exacerbate provoke incense infuriate irritate pique chafe
激起 foment incite stir(up) pique
胆小 craven pusillanimous timid timorous 懦夫 craven poltroon  recreant
天赋 天资 aptitude affinity bent flair knack

奉承的顺从的 obsequius servile,
俗丽 meretricious gaudy garish tawdry splashy
浮华 grandio grandiloquent meretricous
威吓, 使气馁 a. minatary  minacious v. browbeat intimidate daunt dismay cow mangle
惊恐 consternation trepidation
可怕的 gruesome ghastly grisly grim macabre horrific horrid hideous horrendous lurid
解放 manumit emancipate enfranchise liberate
根深蒂固 inveterate entrenched ingrained,
疲倦 lassitude indolent lethargic languish sluggish torpid slothful,勤奋
industrious diligent assiduous sedulity
平淡insipid vapid jejunt banal
空洞无价值 a. fatuous inane jejune vacuous vapid worthless
固有的 immanent intrinsic innate2 essential
质疑impugn, oppugn
暗示insinuate intimate allude imply suggest indicate inkling(略知) 暗讽 innuendo insinuate
报酬honorarium remuneration
尖酸刻薄讽刺 a. tart acerbic

根除 extirpate exterminate eradicate uproot deracinate
破坏 损毁 mar dilapidate devestate tatter vandalize
破败老旧 a. decrepit tattered dilapidated sleazy

秘传的 神秘的esoteric arcane hemetic
礼仪 etiquette decorum proprieties decencies civility amenity
悦耳 euphonious dulcet mellisonant
忽视 discount disregard
结尾denouement
反对 deprecate deplore(2) denounce demur(表示异议) contravene averse aversion
触犯 contravene transgress
废止 desuetude
慈善的 eleemosynary philanthropic benevolent beneficent
伪善 pharisaic sanctimonious hypocritic insincerity
拖拉的 缓慢的 dilatory tardy
拥护 countenance espouse champion 拥护者 advocate proponent v.n. uphold
衰弱 a. effete v. debilitate
出差错的 amiss aright afield
罪犯坏人恶棍  criminal miscreant a.n. villain gangster culprit felon knave rapscallion ruffian scoundrel
明显的 惹人注意的 conspicuous  manifest
轮廓背影 silhouette profile
沉默的, 沉着的 imperturbable
apprehension ?
无精打采 torpid
阻碍 hinder obstruct stymie thwart
拒绝承认 repudiate disavow
摇摆颤抖 wobble
犹豫 顾虑 胆怯 退缩 a. halting v.n. scruple qualm  v. balk cower falter flinch boggle recoil vacillate(between) wince (使) appall daunt   n. demur 
蹒跚 falter lurch stagger stumble whobble
吵闹的  a.  vociferous(protest)  boisterous (party)   obstreperous(people), blatant rowdy(people)
骚乱喧哗 n.  din uproar clamor  fracas hubbub rumpus pandemonium tumult turmoil hassle racket(3)
轰鸣 deafening  jarring plangent strident 响亮的 clarion  orotund  stentorian sonorous reverberating 
害羞 a. diffident shy bashful abashed coy n. pudence
冷静 a. phlegmatic composed stolid n. sangfroid composure
暂缓推迟 moratorium procrastinate slippage

善变, 轻佻 fickle capricious
渴求 avid crave hanker desirous pine yearn wistful
热心 狂热 a. ardent fervid zealous
避开 avert eschew shun elude shirk dodge
记忆, 回忆 recollection remembrance  reminisce ~ retention recollection记忆力 retentiveness
赔偿, 补偿 indemnity  reparation recompense v.n. compensation restitution 2(restore)  redress n. 2 (restore v.)  reimburse 3. ~ recoup v. (regain)
贬低，鄙视.轻视,低估 belittle contempt depreciate despise detract(from) devalue diminish disparage disdain downplay flout scorn
轻率 冲动 a. precipitate hasty impetuous headlong
狡猾 n. craft guile a. artful  crafty cunning devious shifty 
精明 n. dexterity (dexterous) sleight  a. astute canny shrewd slick
戏弄 恶作剧 hoax(骗)
骗子 crook charlaton
贪婪 rapacious, ravenous/ravening, voracious, covetous, a .   cupidity n.  avidity (avid a.)  avarice n. (avaricious)
欺诈  vt. dupe (dupery n.) gull, mulct,   hoodwink  bilk skunk n.    fraud defraud  诡计 deceit deception, chicanery ruse skulduggery sleight  trickery subterfuge (遁词)
哄骗引诱 allure blandish cozen coax cajole delude entice entrap gull beguile inveigle wheedle

奉承, adulate (sb.) blandish fawn(on sb.) flatter palaver(on sb.)  toady (to sb.)  woo  n. adulation a. obsequious 
赞赏，赞扬 approbation, accolade, commend, eulogize, exalt, extol, panegyric citation a.n. encumium n.

嫉妒 begrudge, grudge, envy, jealous
串通勾结 connive, collude. conspire
图谋 contrive, devise, plot, intrigue
驱逐 banish deport evict  expel ostracize expatriate
挪用 embezzle appropriate defalcate
剥夺没收  bereave sb of sth, diprive sb of sth, divest sb of sth (divestiture), expropriate sth from sb , commandeer, confiscate, impound , dispossess sb of sth  
抢掠 抢劫  depredate despoil loot pirate pillage plunder raid ravage reave (~ sb of sth) rob 

令人信服 cogent, convincing, compelling
作证，证实 depose to doing sth, affirm/aver sth, declare that, approve oneself of
丰富 [v.] abound, [a.] copious, abudant
简洁，简短 n. brevity  a. compendious concise curt laconic perspicuity pithy sententious terse
明白的 pellucid, perspicuous

陈述 阐明 说明 allege (allegation) expatiate exposit(exposition) expound elaborate explicate state

抚慰 console/conciliate sb,
缓和，减轻， defuse(anger), alleviate/assuage(pain), allay(heat, fear)
后悔 n. compunction remorse despise  a. contrite penitent
恳求 appeal conjure, entreat, petition (请愿)implore
傻,愚蠢 boor(迟钝) fatuous  folly  n.愚人疯子 dolt dupe dullard dunce gander imbecile loon lunatic moron simpleton
疯狂，狂乱 n. frenzy(状态) delirium derangement lunatic (人) a. frantic frenzied manic
粗俗 coarse crass gross plebeian vulgar 
野蛮 粗野 无礼 不讲理 a. churlish insolent opprobrious truculent surly loutish impertinent  pert uncouth impertinent 不知廉耻 impudent brassy barefaced brazen unbashed
无礼唐突 abrupt curt blunt brusque
傲慢自负专横 arrogant conceited bumptious imperious dictatorial supercilious overbearing haughty hauteur hubris n. vanity conceit egoism brash pretension  自大狂 megalomania ~=自恋 narcissism  
托辞 借口 alibi plea pretext  pretension pretense quip subterfuge
吹牛者 braggadocio braggart blowhard boaster

预测 预知 预示 adumbrate augur betoken forecast foretell foreshadow omen prefigure presage prognosticate  
n.吉兆 auspice(s)
不祥凶险 a. baleful ominous portentous sinister n. boding

炫耀 v. flaunt vaunt swank(v.n.a.) a. pompous  pretentious ostenatious   n. splurge ostentation
挑剔 v. carp(at) cavil(at/about) , a. exacting fastidious finicky fusty nitpicking persnickety 
谨慎 a. chary circumspect conscientious considerate discreet gingerly meticulous punctilious painstaking  prudent scrupulous wary

责备 (温和地) (人) admonish chide monish rebuke reprimand reprehend reproach reprove scold upbraid 
严厉斥责(人) castigate chastise censure berate excoriate lambaste flay(喻) lash (喻)slash (喻) scathe  objurgate reprobate  stricture
谴责(事) condemn fulminate(agaist) denounce objurgate reprehend

憎恶 v. abhor, loathe, detest   令人厌恶的a. obnoxious, offensive, disagreeable. repulsive  n. abomination distaste
咒骂 诅咒 curse, swear, imprecate(imprecation), maledict(malediction)
诽谤中伤 asperse(aspersion) besmirch calumniate(calumny) defame(defamatory) derogate(from) discredit distain libel(agaist) v.n malign v.a. slander v.n. (slanderous) tigmatise traduce vilify  a. scurrilous 
谩骂 责骂 a. invective(n.a.)  v. scold  obloquy inveigh revile vituperate 

荒谬的，可笑的 preposterous derisory ridiculous outlandish absurd ludicrous farcical nonsensical
嘲笑 deride gibe(at) jibe(at) jeer(at)  mockery persiflage (n.) taunt travesty ridicule scoff snear
讽刺 模仿 burlesque, caricature, parody, pastiche, mordant a., lampoon, snide a. sarcastic a.
敌意 animosity animus enmity
轻佻 coltish facetious frippant frivolous flighty giddy obstreperous skittish
激励 galvanize, goad,
规劝 admonish sb to, dissuade sb from doing , exhort sb to do, expostulate with some risk,
失败 v. blunder  founder 不及格 flunk  n. blunder fiasco 使失败 foil 犯错 flounder 弄糟  botch bungle 
成功 n. feat (壮举)
尊敬 esteem, look up to. revere (reverenc), venerate
摘要概论大纲 compendium conspectus digest epitome outline precis sketch synopsis summary  syllabus
宠爱 溺爱 coddle cosset dote mollycoddle pamper spoil

痛苦 affliction anguish agony misery tribulation woe
疯狂的  demented frenzied frantic manic
心烦意乱 distraught distrait distracted harassed distressed bewildered

沉闷 阴沉 昏暗 a.  depressing dim dour dreary gloomy moross(抑郁) murky opaque somber sullen
悲伤 沮丧 抑郁 downcast melancholy hypochondria moross sombre morbid (病态的)

法令 decree v. 制定法律enact   n.v  edict n. enactment fiat legislation rescript statute 法典 codification 
雕像  effigy statuary statue statuette figurine

狼吞虎咽  guttle glut (glutton n.) gorge gormandize  饱食 satiate sate stodge surfeit

愉快高兴欢乐 a. jovial jocund jolly convivial n. gaiety merriment vivacity

琐碎 a. fiddling fiddle-faddle insignificann niggling piddling piffling trifling(trifles) trivial(trivia)
n. desipience minutiae

格言警句 apothegm adage aphorism dictum maxim precept proverb
寓言故事 allegory fable parable
魔术变戏法 conjuration legerdemain juggle prestidigitation   wizardry 

少量 n. mite modicum morsel a. minute meager  

预感 预兆 boding forboding presentiment presage  prophecy omen n.v. v. prognosticate

==形近==
aver avert advert averse
huddle hurdle  cuddle coddle curdle
coven   * craven * caven * covert
tackle fickle tickle
flog fog frog flop fop bog
fatuous facetious factious factitious factual faction fractious fraction friction fictitious(fiction) 
urnish furnish garnish tarnish varnish
thrash trash
flagrant fragrant
disposition indisposed predisposition predispose
shrivel shiver
ingenious  ingenuity ingenuous  genuine 
swan cob cygnet
accede to 同意,就职,加入 cede 放弃,割让 concede 承认,让步,输给 intercede 求情with,斡旋between precede 在之前 recede 后退,减弱 retrocede 2 归还,退却 secede 退出脱离

primeval 原始的 medieval 中世纪的 longeval 长寿的 coeval 同时代的
implication imprecation
luscious lustrous illustrious luxurious lusty  lustful ludicrous

=====同类 =======

曲 serenade  requiem rhapsody
宝石 sapphire  ruby  jade turquoise
病症 amnesia anemia anorexia aphasia arthritis  canker  dyslexia dyspepsia gastritis euphoria hepatitis nephritis pneumonia hemophilia hypochondria flatulence gangrene cephalalgia inflammation insomnia ulceration
器官 intestine cornea

